Let us see what is inflation first. Inflation is when prices of goods and services rise and there is a corresponding decrease in the value of money. Countries like the United States actually aim for 2% inflation per year as they want the people producing output get more money.

But in long term, inflation has a huge disadvantage. The value of savings get reduced over time. If you start saving in your country’s fiat currency, in the future the value of your savings would be actually lesser than what it is now.

But Bitcoin does the exact opposite.

The value of bitcoin raises over time and prices of products get reduced against the value of bitcoin.

The reason for this is its limited supply. The total supply of bitcoin is fixed at 21 million. The circulating supply as of now is at 16,795,435 million. The only way the remaining bitcoin would become available is through mining. For each block of transaction the miners verify, a reward of 12.5 bitcoin is awarded. As a new block is created every ten minutes, that is 12.5 new bitcoin available every ten minutes. The reward gets halved every four years.

Once all of the 21 million bitcoin gets mined, there will be no more bitcoins available. The miners would get rewarded through the transaction fees. That won’t happen until the year 2140.

This limited supply of bitcoin causes its value to keep rising over time. As the value of the currency increases, the value of goods and services that can be brought with it decreases.

To make it clear, Deflation is a bad thing.

Deflation causes the prices of goods and services to drop. So the more the currency deflates, the less the reward for the people producing goods and services. The demand will decrease and this will lead to an economic crisis. People would stop spending money and start hoarding it. Why buy something now if it will be less expensive tomorrow? Unemployment would become rampant.

Inflation is the lesser of two evils, but it must be kept at a low level.

But the deflation of bitcoin is not bad.


But it will not be a hurdle for other cryptocurrencies as they all have a larger supply. They will not face the same deflation problem.

Once the deflation problem is sorted, the cryptocurrencies become the more attractive option compared to fiat currencies. Decentralization, peer to peer verification process, direct transaction without the involvement of third parties… Cryptocurrencies bring the power back to the people.

Cryptocurrencies are the future.

Bitcoin is the king of Cryptocurrencies.

But bitcoin cannot be used as a regular currency. It is an investment. It is the digital version of gold.